All right so let's launch Grettel and import Aldara to launch Grinnel DoubleClick that I can.
And here now go to File Open data user file.
And here we're going to need to locate where we are storing a data set.
So mine's on my desktop in my modeling section simple linear regression.
And here just at the bottom in the dropdown select all files you can so it's history but I usually search
all files and there it is.
That's all files so let's double click that and open it up and right away we've got a message here saying
that they imported Dora have been interpreted as data to cross sectional.
Do you want to give the data a time series of panel interpretation so here just click.
No we don't want to Times-News or panel interpretation.
Q You got some stats on what data was imported.
So that's normal.
And here you have your Basically your variables and the constant.
So what we can do here let's start getting used to Grettel and you'll get more and more familiar with
the interface as we go along.
It's very simple after a few of these materials you'll be swimming here very very easily.
OK.
So what are you going to do is we going to go to you.
And here we want to look at some statistics of our data.
So if you go you summary statistics here you can select the variables that you want to view So let's
start with one for instance say years experience who want to see what the population we're looking at
here or what's what sample we look at here and here you can see the mean.
So on average is five point three years experience the median the minimum one point one maximum 10 and
a half.
Standard deviation stuff like that and you've got the percentiles of your years experience and no missing
observations so that's quite useful.
Now think we can do is we can do the same but with both variables so summerise sticks and we could just
put both variables in here so you can see is like a drag and drop interface or more just probably a
very handy visual interface not really drag and drop but you can take things out so you can like put
things in are very intuitive I guess.
So here you click ok now.
And they go so now you have your statistics for both variables.
So you've got a means your median minimum is maximums percentiles and deviation the rest of them we
won't be that interested in.
So that's basically the most basic thing you can do probably in Grettel.
You can also like right click your variable here and say display values and will show you the exact
values that were imported If you want to look at them what else you can.
For instance edit values if you want that will allow you to actually manipulate your values which I
don't recommend doing but if you need to adjust something you can do it right in here you don't have
to go back to the CAC file.
Then what else you can edit attributes so you can change the name of the variable.
You can add some description so on.
And by the way like we'll see later on if you make changes to data that can really be stored and see
as we file descriptions and other things like that then you can always when you save your data you have
an option to save it as a griddle daughter file.
And that way Grettel will actually store all these modifications you're making and they won't be lost
so Grendal does have its own type of files it creates.
So that's basically the most simplest thing you can do in Grettel if you like play around you know click
around here what else you can find there's lots of stuff even if you break the data you just modify
it or something doesn't really matter.
This first section we're just getting to know Grinnel just do a simple linear regression and next tutorial
so nothing bad can happen even if you play around with it just as long as you're comfortable if this
interface and we'll get straight into it in the next Tauriel and all approach and then